CON-4123: Availability block via channel manager api - documentation (#189)
MewsSystems/gitbook-channel-manager-api: mews-operations/availabilityBlockProcessor.md

> # Channel Manager API Operations: Process availability blocks

Reviewer: There is no need to create a new page, we already have a page for Availability Blocks on the Mews side, which contains `processAvailabilityBlockConfirmation`. We should add the new operation to the existing page, unless there is a good reason not to?

> ## Process availability block

Reviewer: The name here is singular, but the URL name is plural. We should be consistent. I think singular is probably correct, because you can only process a single availability block with this operation.

> [`async`] Use this operation to push availability blocks to Mews. The operation is used for add/update/cancel availability block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`async`] Use this operation to push availability blocks to Mews. The same operation is used for adding, updating and canceling availability blocks.
```

### Request

> [PlatformAddress]/api/channelManager/v1/processAvailabilityBlocks

Reviewer: Operation name probably should be singular?

```json
{

>     "clientToken": "[Channel manager client token]", 

Reviewer: We should use actual examples here (just change a few characters to make sure it's not a valid token)

            }
        ],
        "booker": {
            "email": "angelina.jolie@10001-438-sample-portfolio-hotel-10001.com",
            "firstName": "Angelina",
            "lastName": "Jolie",
            "title": null,
            "telephone": null,
            "nationalityCode": null,
            "languageCode": null,
            "loyaltyCode": null,
            "address": null
        },
        "company": null,
        "notes": "This is a note."
    }  
}
```

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `clientToken` | `string` | required | Client token of the channel manager. |
| `connectionToken` | `string` | required | Token of a concrete connection. |
| `messageId` | `string` | required | Unique identification of the message. Used for asynchronous confirmations. |
| `availabilityBlock` | [`Availability block`](#availability-block) object | required | Availablity block data. |

#### Availability block
| Property | Type | Contract| Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `code`| `string`| required | Unique reference code from external system for the availability block. Will be returned after confirmation containing this code. |

> | `confirmationNumber` | `string` | required(exc. create) | Mews confirmation number for the block. |

Reviewer: I think it might be better to write this as follows:
```suggestion
| `confirmationNumber` | `string` | optional | Mews confirmation number for the block. If updating or deleting an existing block, this property is required. |
```

> |:---------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------|:----------------------|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

Reviewer 2: Why so long ?

> | `code`               | `string`                                                             | required              | Unique reference code from external system for the availability block. Will be returned after confirmation containing this code. |

Reviewer 2: its in markdown table so you dont need to add spaces.

| `status` | [`Status`](#status) object| required | State of the availability block. |
| `name` | `string` | required | Name of the availability block. |
| `dates` | [`Dates`](#dates) object | required| Dates of the availability block. |
| `releaseStrategy` | [`Release strategy`](#release-strategy) object | required | Release strategy of the availability block. |
| `originalRateCode` | `string` | required | Original rated code of the availability block. |
| `spaceCategories` | [`Space category allocation`](#space-category-allocation) collection | required | Allocated categories of the availability block. |
| `booker` | [`Customer`](./reservations.md#customer) object | required | The main booker. This does not mean that the person has arrived at the property. |
| `company` | [`Company`](./reservations.md#company) object | optional | The company associated with the availability block. |

> | `notes` | `string` | optional | It's a notes. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `notes` | `string` | optional | Notes related to the availability block. |
```

#### Dates
| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | `start` | `string` | required | Start date in format `yyyy-mm-dd`, e.g. `2024-12-05`; this is the first day of the block and so can be booked for stay. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `start` | `string` | required | Start date in format `yyyy-mm-dd`, e.g. `2024-12-05`, this is the first day of the block and so can be booked for stay. |
```

> | `releaseStrategy`   | [`releaseStrategy`](#Release-Strategy) object                        | required              | Release strategy of the availability block.                                                                                      |

Reviewer 2: inconsistency in upper lower case

| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `start` | `string` | required | Start date in format `"yyyy-MM-dd"` \(e.g. `"2024-12-05"`\). |
| `end` | `string` | required | End date \(excluded\) in format `"yyyy-MM-dd"` \(e.g., `"2024-12-08"`\). |
| `count` | `int` | required | Number of spaces (base of usage either occupied or allocated.) |

### Rate
| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `start` | `string` | required | Start date in format `"yyyy-MM-dd"` \(e.g. `"2024-12-05"`\). |
| `end` | `string` | required | End date \(excluded\) in format `"yyyy-MM-dd"` \(e.g., `"2024-12-31"`\). |
| `grossAmount` | `string` | required | Price with taxes included. | 

#### Status

* `Created`
* `Updated`
* `Canceled`

#### Release strategy type

* `Fixed`

### Response

[Synchronous simple response](../guidelines/responses.md#synchronous-simple-response) is expected to determine whether the operation was accepted or not.

[[Async] availability block processing confirmation](#availability-block-processing-confirmation) is expected to determine whether the operation was processed afterward or not.

### Availability block processing confirmation
```json

> {

Reviewer: The indentation here is different to the standard, e.g. see above on the same page.

> | `type` | `string` | required | release strategy for the availability block, in the first version only support "fixed" |

Reviewer 2: enums should have also type in documentation so when you extend it there is link for it

> > **Dates**: Interval for 1 night (e.g. is represented 2024-12-24/25 is represented as `"start": "2024-12-24", "end": "2024-12-24"`).

Reviewer 2: technically we can do this as interval but it would mean extend little the API layer to decompose it

> > **Dates**: Interval for 1 night (e.g. is represented 2024-12-24/25 is represented as `"start": "2024-12-24", "end": "2024-12-24"`).

Reviewer 2: should it be 1 night ?

Reviewer 2: i think it can be multiple
